Be.HexEditor
============

This repository mirrors source code of [Be.HexEditor](http://sourceforge.net/projects/hexbox/) project created by Bernhard Elbl.  
Be.HexEditor is a small, fast and simple hex editor. It contains a reusable hex edit control called HexBox.  
Be.Windows.Forms.HexBox is a UserControl written in .Net Framework 4.8 and .NET 8.  

___

# Table of Contents

- [HexBox Control Properties](#hexbox-properties)
  * [HexAppearance](#hexappearance)
    + [BackColorDisabled(Color)](#backcolordisabledcolor)
    + [BorderStyle(BorderStyle)](#borderstyleborderstyle)
    + [InfoForeColor(Color)](#infoforecolorcolor)
    + [SelectionBackColor(Color)](#selectionbackcolorcolor)
    + [SelectionForeColor(Color)](#selectionforecolorcolor)
    + [ShadowSelectionColor(Color)](#shadowselectioncolorcolor)
    + [ChangedForeColor(Color) `*New`](#changedforecolorcolor-new)
    + [ChangedFinishForeColor(Color) `*New`](#changedfinishforecolorcolor-new)
    + [ZeroBytesForeColor(Color) `*New`](#zerobytesforecolorcolor-new)

  * [HexBehavior](#hexbehavior)
    + [ReadOnly(bool)](#readonlybool)
    + [BytesPerLine(int)](#bytesperlineint)
    + [GroupSize(int)](#groupsizeint)
    + [UseFixedBytesPerLine(bool)](#usefixedbytesperlinebool)
    + [VScrollBarVisible(bool)](#vscrollbarvisiblebool)
    + [GroupSeparatorVisible(bool)](#groupseparatorvisiblebool)
    + [ColumnInfoVisible(bool)](#columninfovisiblebool)
    + [LineInfoVisible(bool)](#lineinfovisiblebool)
    + [LineInfoOffset(long)](#lineinfooffsetlong)
    + [StringViewVisible(bool)](#stringviewvisiblebool)
    + [HexCasing](#hexcasing)
    + [ShadowSelectionVisible(bool)](#shadowselectionvisiblebool)
    + [LineInfoOffsetLength(int) `*New`](#lineinfooffsetlengthint-new)
    + [EnableCut(bool) `*New`](#enablecutbool-new)
    + [EnableDelete(bool) `*New`](#enabledeletebool-new)
    + [EnablePaste(bool) `*New`](#enablepastebool-new)
    + [EnableOverwritePaste(bool) `*New`](#enableoverwritepastebool-new)
    + [EnableRetainChangedPos(bool) `*New`](#enableretainchangedposbool-new)
    + [EnableRetainChangedFinishPos(bool) `*New`](#enableretainchangedfinishposbool-new)
    + [EnableAutoChangedPosSetFinish(bool) `*New`](#enableautochangedpossetfinishbool-new)
    + [ByteGrouping(ByteGroupingType) `*New`](#bytegroupingbytegroupingtype-new)
    + [KeyDownControlCContentType `*New`](#keydowncontrolccontenttype-new)
    + [BuiltInContextMenu(BuiltInContextMenu)](#builtincontextmenubuiltincontextmenu)

  * [Hidden](#hidden)
    + [ByteProvider(IByteProvider)](#byteprovideribyteprovider)
    + [ScrollVpos(long)](#scrollvposlong)
    + [CurrentFindingPosition(long)](#currentfindingpositionlong)
    + [SelectionStart(long)](#selectionstartlong)
    + [SelectionLength(long)](#selectionlengthlong)
    + [CharSize(CharSize)](#charsizecharsize)
    + [RequiredWidth(int)](#requiredwidthint)
    + [HorizontalByteCount(int)](#horizontalbytecountint)
    + [VerticalByteCount(int)](#verticalbytecountint)
    + [CurrentLine(long)](#currentlinelong)
    + [CurrentPositionInLine(long)](#currentpositioninlinelong)
    + [InsertActive(bool)](#insertactivebool)
    + [ByteCharConverter](#bytecharconverter)

[TOC generated by markdown-toc](https://ecotrust-canada.github.io/markdown-toc/)

___


# HexBox Control Properties


## HexAppearance

### BackColorDisabled(Color)
> Gets or sets the background color for the disabled control.  
> DefaultValue: WhiteSmoke Color  

### BorderStyle(BorderStyle)
> Gets or sets the hex box's border style.  
> DefaultValue: Fixed3D BorderStyle  

### InfoForeColor(Color)
> Gets or sets the info color used for column info and line info. When this property is null, then ForeColor property is used.  
> Gets or sets the line info color. When this property is null, then ForeColor property is used.  
> DefaultValue: Gray Color  

### SelectionBackColor(Color)
> Gets or sets the background color for the selected bytes.  
> DefaultValue: Blue Color  

### SelectionForeColor(Color)
> Gets or sets the foreground color for the selected bytes.  
> DefaultValue: White Color  

### ShadowSelectionColor(Color)
> Gets or sets the color of the shadow selection. 
> A alpha component must be given! 
> Default ARGB(100, 60, 188, 255)  

### ChangedForeColor(Color) `*New`
> Gets or sets the foreground color for the position of changed bytes.  
> DefaultValue: Red Color  

### ChangedFinishForeColor(Color) `*New`
> Gets or sets the foreground color for the position of finish changed.  
> After perform the ChangedPosSetFinish method, the changed position setting will be finish.  
> DefaultValue: LimeGreen  

### ZeroBytesForeColor(Color) `*New`
> Gets or sets the foreground color for the zero bytes.  
> DefaultValue: Silver Color  

#########################

## HexBehavior

### ReadOnly(bool)
> Get or set whether to make the HexEditor readonly.  
> Disable edit, cut, paste, delete behavior when set to true.  
> DefaultValue: false  

### BytesPerLine(int)
> Gets or sets the maximum count of bytes in one line.  
> UseFixedBytesPerLine property no longer has to be set to true for this to work  
> DefaultValue: 16  

### GroupSize(int)
> Gets or sets the number of bytes in a group. Used to show the group separator line (if GroupSeparatorVisible is true)  
> Gets or sets the byte-count between group separators (if visible).  
> GroupSeparatorVisible property must set to true  
> DefaultValue: 4  

### UseFixedBytesPerLine(bool)
> Gets or sets if the count of bytes in one line is fix.  
> When set to True, BytesPerLine property determine the maximum count of bytes in one line.  
> DefaultValue: false  

### VScrollBarVisible(bool)
> Gets or sets the visibility of a vertical scroll bar.  
> DefaultValue: false  

### GroupSeparatorVisible(bool)
> Gets or sets the visibility of the group separator.  
> Gets or sets the visibility of a separator vertical line.  
> DefaultValue: false  

### ColumnInfoVisible(bool)
> Gets or sets the visibility of the column info.  
> Gets or sets the visibility of header row.  
> DefaultValue: false  

### LineInfoVisible(bool)
> Gets or sets the visibility of a line info.  
> DefaultValue: false  

### LineInfoOffset(long)
> Gets or sets the offset of the line info.  
> DefaultValue: (long)0  

### StringViewVisible(bool)
> Gets or sets the visibility of the string view.  
> DefaultValue: false  

### HexCasing
> Gets or sets whether the HexBox control displays the hex characters in upper or lower case.  
> DefaultValue: Upper HexCasing  

### ShadowSelectionVisible(bool)
> Gets or sets the visibility of a shadow selection.  
> DefaultValue: true  

### LineInfoOffsetLength(int) `*New`
> Gets or sets the maximum size of line info offset support length. Sets range is 8(32bit)~16(64bit).  
> DefaultValue: 8  

### EnableCut(bool) `*New`
> Gets or sets whether you can cut bytes data.  
> DefaultValue: false  

### EnableDelete(bool) `*New`
> Gets or sets whether you can delete bytes data.  
> DefaultValue: false  

### EnablePaste(bool) `*New`
> Gets or sets whether you can paste bytes data.  
> DefaultValue: false  

### EnableOverwritePaste(bool) `*New`
> Gets or sets whether to enable the overwrite mode when pasting hex data.  
> DefaultValue: false  

### EnableRetainChangedPos(bool) `*New`
> Gets or sets whether to retain the position of changed when ByteProvider changed.  
> DefaultValue: false  

### EnableRetainChangedFinishPos(bool) `*New`
> Gets or sets whether to retain the position of finish changed when ByteProvider changed.  
> DefaultValue: false  

### EnableAutoChangedPosSetFinish(bool) `*New`
> Gets or sets whether auto perform the ChangedPosSetFinish method when ByteProvider changed. DefaultValue: false.  
> DefaultValue: false  

### ByteGrouping(ByteGroupingType) `*New`
> Gets or sets the byte grouping type:  
> DefaultValue: B01 (Size:01)  
> B01 = Size:01, Hex  
> B02 = Size:02, Hex  
> B04 = Size:04, Hex  
> B08 = Size:08, Hex  
> B16 = Size:16, Hex  
> [Experimental Features]  
> The hex value can be displayed as a numeric value, when the ByteGrouping of HexBox is set to decimal or float or double.  
> Note: This feature is for display only and does not support direct editing of values.  
> B01Decimal = Size:01, Decimal byte  
> B02Decimal = Size:02, Decimal ushort  
> B04Decimal = Size:04, Decimal uint  
> B08Decimal = Size:08, Decimal ulong  
> B04Float = Size:04, Float  
> B08Double = Size:08, Double  

### KeyDownControlCContentType `*New`
> Get or set the content-type of the copy feature for key down (Control+C), content-type is Char or Hex text  

### BuiltInContextMenu(BuiltInContextMenu)
> Gets or sets the built-in context menu.


## Hidden

### ByteProvider(IByteProvider)
> Gets or sets the ByteProvider.

### ScrollVpos(long)
> Contains the scroll bars current position.

### CurrentFindingPosition(long)
> Gets a value that indicates the current position during Find method execution.
> Contains a value of the current finding position.

### SelectionStart(long)
> Gets and sets the starting point of the bytes selected in the hex box.

### SelectionLength(long)
> Gets and sets the number of bytes selected in the hex box.

### CharSize(SizeF)
> Contains the size of a single character in pixel.

### RequiredWidth(int)
> Gets the width required for the content.

### HorizontalByteCount(int)
> Gets the number bytes drawn horizontally.

### VerticalByteCount(int)
> Gets the number bytes drawn vertically.

### CurrentLine(long)
> Gets the current line

### CurrentPositionInLine(long)
> Gets the current position in the current line

### InsertActive(bool)
> Gets the a value if insertion mode is active or not.

### ByteCharConverter
> Gets or sets the converter that will translate between byte and character values.